## Space Time

In what is almost definitely my silliest decision so far, I have a new time
system for Space Planets.  I call it "Space Time".  The system we use in real
life is called "Earth Time" in the context of my game.

Space time is a decimal time system, meaning it is completely base ten.  Many
[decimal time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metric_time) systems have been
proposed over the years.  None have been adopted because people seem to think
that changing the time system everyone uses would be stupid.  Most decimal time
systems keep the size of the day constant and divide the day into 10ths 100th
etc.  Mine keeps the length of the second the same, since it is an SI unit.
From there I derive the length of hours and days.  The length of a space day is
just under 28 Earth hours, which makes it just 15% longer than an Earth day.
That's close enough that I think humans could adapt to it without problems. Days
are divided into ten hours, additionally I divide the day up into 4 shifts.
Each shift is 2.5 Space hours (about 7 hours).  Crew members will generally work
a double shift and then have two shifts for self care (relaxation, hygiene,
entertainment, etc.) and sleep.

| Seconds       | Space Time     | Earth Time         |
|---------------|----------------|--------------------|
| 100 s         | 1 Space Minute | 1.66 Earth Minutes |
| 10,000 s      | 1 Space Hour   | 2.77 Earth Hours   |
| 100,000 s     | 1 Space Day    | 27.7 Earth Hours   |
| 1,000,000 s   | 1 Space Week   | 11.6 Earth Days    |
| 10,000,000 s  | 1 Space Month  | 116 Earth Days     |
| 100,000,000 s | 1 Space Year   | 3.17 Earth Years   |

Space time is also compatible with the unix epoch.  Both start on Jan 1, 1970.
If you take the unix timestamp and write it out in decimal, like this:
`1512420765`, then add dashes, colons, and a space in the right places it turns
into `15-1-24 2:07:65`.  That's the current space time.  Drop the hours, minutes,
and seconds to get the space date: `15-1-24`.  

### Lore

The belters adopted space time as a form of rebellion to emphasize their
independence from Earth.  It was originally implemented for political reasons
rather than practical ones.  Paradoxically, many space travelers see it as an
apolitical alternative to either Earth time or Mars time.

### PS

All this talk of belters and politics makes me think I should watch The Expanse.
I still haven't seen it, but I know it has belters.
