## Is Atmosphere Necessary?

If I want to have a playable game as soon as possible, then maybe atmosphere isn't worth working on right now.  I need to have at least one core game play loop as well as enough quality of life features that game play isn't awful.  Then it would really be a game instead of a weird animation.  I could ask people to play it and give feedback.  I should get to that point as quickly as possible, and maybe I can do that with robots running around in a vacuum.  The core gameplay features I have in mind are:

- traveling from planet to planet
- trading
- expanding and remodeling the ship
- crafting
- crew management

Out of these, I can build several game play loops.  There's the travel/trade loop and the closely related trade/craft loop.  The ship is expanded or reorganized to have mores space for crew, storage, or crafting.  Crew has to be kept happy and healthy and able to do tasks around the ship.

So, which things can I cut out of the first prototype?  Crew management becomes easier if the crew doesn't need food, air, or entertainment.  Travel might also be unnecessary.  Every other aspect could be done in a stationary space station.  Crafting would be the next to go. That leads me with just trading and building.  Building might be fun, but doesn't make much sense without being able to buy new materials.

That leaves me with trading and a simple crew of robots.  Robots who only buy things they can't use doesn't sound like very much fun, but the goal at this stage is playable, not fun.  I still want to add all the other stuff later.

There are several features that aren't related to the simulation that the prototype must have as well.  So far I can think of:

- saving and restoring a game
- working user interface
