## A name for the game

I've been wishing I had a good name for this game for a long time.  I've been calling it "my space game" when I talk about it, but never really as a title.  I purchased the domain "spaceplanets.net", so I guess that's my working title, but I'm not really happy with it.  It's kind of dumb, and it has nothing to do with what the game's about.

The game is about a space ship.  It's not about the captain or the crew or the planets, those things come and go.  The camera focuses on the ship, and so does the gameplay.  I'd love if I could name my game "Space Ship", but since this is an online game, it needs a good URL, and I can't buy spaceship.com.  I've been exploring words for space ship in different languages.  Here are some of the ones I like:

- raumschiff - German
- rumskib - Danish
- ruimteschip - Dutch
- rymdskepp - Swedish
- romskip - Norwegian

These are all based on some form of "room ship" (their words for space all have the same root as the English word 'room').  None of those words are actually available, but I could use some amalgamation like romshift, ramskiff, or raumskip.  It would be a word that could be 'space ship' in a language that is related to these languages, but isn't actually a word in any real language.  It could be made easy for English speakers to spell even if they aren't going to recognize it as meaning anything.

Another option I like a is 'safina'.  It's a transliteration of the Arabic word for ship.  It's a pretty word.  I'd have to use some variant of it, because I am stuck with URLs that are actually available.  I could add a silent 't' or 'h' to the end.  I could use a 'ph' instead of 'f', I could use a double 'f' or a double 'i'.  All of those make it a little less pretty and a little harder to spell.  Safiina.
