## Terraforming Venus

There's an idea that if we introduced massive amounts of hydrogen to the atmosphere of Venus, we could reduce the atmospheric pressure, remove greenhouse gasses, reduce the temperature, and create giant, planet-spanning oceans.  All in one go.  This is because the hydrogen can pull oxygen out of carbon dioxide and form water, letting elemental carbon fall out.  On earth, we build ovens to do this, but Venus is already super warm.  I imagine ships dropping iron-nickel capsules that both deliver the hydrogen to the surface and act as the catalyst to the reaction.  An observer from the surface would see shooting star-like lights which streak through the sky leaving behind black clouds of carbon.  It would look cool.

It wouldn't quite make the planet habitable, though. The new atmosphere would have no oxygen, the land would be covered in graphite, and it would still be way too hot.  Maybe even hotter than it was before, since the H~2~ + CO~2~ reaction is exothermic.  If the planet ever did cool down, then the water vapor would eventually rain down, covering 80% of the planet in water.  That water would absorb the natural sulfuric acid in the Venusian atmosphere, making a huge ocean of acid.

I think this is the sort of project a civilization that has colonized Mars might undertake.  I could have some entity in the game who offers to pay players to deliver hydrogen to Venus.  It will take a huge amount of hydrogen, something like 4x10^19^ kg.  Since that's so much more than a single ship could reasonably ever do, this would be an interesting application of my asynchronous multiplayer.  I can let all players contribute to the total, and once enough hydrogen has been delivered, Venus can change for all players.
