## To Swizzle or to Unswizzle

The part of my project I have rewritten the most is the serialization.  I keep designing a system that is just capable of representing the current features and every time I need to implement a new feature it turns out the system is insufficient.  And so, here we go again.

I was using a tree structure, where every object was inside of the object it is related to.  It turns out that's insufficient because I'm introducing objects that have relationships to more than one object.  For example, a construction job.  The job itself is an object.  It need to know which structure it's building, which crew member is working on it, and which materials are reserved for it.  If I were to use a tree structure, then which of those objects contains the job?  The structure, maybe?  Alright, then how does the crew member relate to the job?  Does the crew member move from a member of the ship to a member of the job when they start the job?  That's confusing, but it could work.  Can we do the same with the item?  It was a member of the crate where it was stored.  If being set aside for the job means becoming a member of the job object, then how do we remember that it's inside the crate?  Not by simply being in the same square as the crate.  I want to allow free floating items to drift around the cabin in zero gravity, so items might float into the same square as a crate.

I think it's clear that a pure tree wouldn't cut it.  I considered an impure tree for a while.  It would still be a tree, with objects being members of the object they are *most* related to, and then links to some unique identifiers of the other objects they need a reference to.  I'm not going to do that.

I'm going to make a single object store.  It's going to be a big long array of objects.  Each object's index in the array will be the identifier for that object.  Every reference to any object will be its index.  A crate's inventory will be a list of indexes where you can find the representation of those items.  

Serialization will happen in two steps.  

1. Swizzling.  We iterate through every object and give it an index.  
2. Serialization.  We iterate through every object and generate its serialization.  We use the index of referenced objects that we just calculated.

Similarly, deserialization will happen in two steps.

1. Deserialization.  Create an incomplete object for every entry in the array.
2. Unswizzling.  Complete all the objects by filling in the links they have to other objects.

The biggest change I'll need to make is for the deserialization step.  Each object needs to be creatable as a stub with no outside references and then initialized at a later time.
