## Artificial Gravity

I really like the concept of artificial gravity caused by constant acceleration of a space craft.  If you ignore the question of whether or not a rocket could manage it, it is a really cool idea.  Especially when you consider space walks.  I imagine an astronaut climbing around the surface of a space ship like it was a building.  If they slip, they fall a short distance and are caught suddenly by their safety line which slams them against the side of the ship.  If the line fails, the ship witnesses the unlucky space walker plummet into a bottomless pit.  The astronaut experiences the sensation of falling briefly, but as soon as the ship is out of reach his perspective changes.  He sees himself a floating in silence while his ship speeds away from him.  Can the ship rescue him?  It depends on lots of things, especially how fast the ship can react.  Each second he gets farther away.  It's not enough to cut the engines.  That stops the acceleration, but the astronaut is still moving away from the ship.  The ship needs to accelerate toward the astronaut, close the distance at a safe speed, match speeds when the distance is small enough, and pull the astronaut back into the ship.  How much time does that take?  How far off course are they?  How much fuel did they burn?  Can they even make it to their destination anymore?  It's entirely possible that such a maneuver could doom the ship.  It's not like a car trip where a ten minute pit stop just adds ten minutes.  In interplanetary travel, the amount of fuel needed to correct your course increases exponentially the further off course you get.  It's entirely possible that the ship lets a single fall victim die in space rather than risk the entire ship and crew.  They could be in range for radio contact long after the window for rescue had closed.
