## What's Next?

Alright, I got the logic for logging in and out working.  It's a little clunky, but it works correctly.  At least as far as I know.  There could be bugs.

Before, I thought I would do trading next.  That would involve getting the economy server up and running and creating lots of new dialogs and menus.  It would take some new art and animations for shuttle ships and landing pads.  It would be a lot of work, and at the end, you can buy and sell stuff.  Is that fun?  Maybe you can make a profit trading at a single port, and that will give you materials to build more storage.  That's not such a bad gameplay loop, but it's not a very fulfilling loop all on it's own.  It a better loop when you can travel from planet to planet and the bigger your ship is, the more cargo you can take and the bigger your profits are going to be.  I think it's a supporting gameplay loop, not a core gameplay loop.  I want the next feature I add to the game to be more fun than that.

Let talk about some of the games I like and see how they do it.

### *Rimworld* and *Dwarf Fortress*

The first mechanic you encounter in these games is meeting the needs of your colonists.  You have to build farms, kitchens, beds, heaters, and lights to feed everyone and keep them comfortable.  You want more people so you have more labor to get everything done, but they consume more resources.  Later, they do better if they have medicine, entertainment, and other comforts.  Keeping everyone happy and working with the amount of labor available is a challenge.  It's more satisfying to take care of the little people because you empathize with them a little.  

Then there's the raids.  You want more weapons and soldiers so you can defend yourself better, but the wealthier your group is the larger and more frequent the attacks are going to be.  There's this weird dichotomy, where you're encouraged to grow and then punished for it.  It's worth pointing out that in both of these games, growing is not a decision you make.  New colonists appear periodically and are basically dumped on you.

### *Factorio*

Factorio is all about automation.  The big loop is to automate processes to get materials to automate more processes to get even more materials.  The satisfaction comes from designing and setting up a system and that watching it work.  The pieces you have to work with are robust and varied enough that you can set up complicated systems.  I spend most of my time in Factorio watching my factory and making little tweaks.

### *Surviving Mars* and *Banished*

Both of these games will put you in a downward spiral if you run out of something important.  They challenge you to use limited starting resources to get into a sustainable economic situation.

### *Stellaris*

This is one of those "one more turn" games, but without actually being turn based.  You never want to quit playing because there is always something that's about to happen.  Ship that are about to arrive, a building is about to finish, or a research is going to get done.  There's always something.  Research enable better ways to generate minerals and you can use minerals to speed your research.  Where Stellaris really shines, though, is in the stories it tells.  Run away imperialism.  Societies made of multiple alien species.  Clashes of great space navies.  Archeology to uncover the secrets of long extinct alien races.  The roles of religion, biological modification, and artificial intelligence in high tech societies.  There's a lot going on, thematically.

As I see it, none of these games have a single, core mechanic.  The games only work with the combination off lots of systems.  They have two or more systems that reinforce each other in a positive feedback loop, but growth is limited by some sort of diminishing returns.  My conclusion is that there is no single mechanic I can add to make the game fun.  It's also not going to work to just add systems until something interesting happens.  The interplay and advancement of systems needs to be carefully thought out.  I'm pretty confident that trading and interplanetary travel are going to part of the final game, so I might as well add them.  It will give me more fertile ground for developing further systems.

There was an interview with Toady One, the creator of Dwarf Fortress.  He described how he will start with a story that he want to be possible in the game.  Then he will add mechanics so that stories like that will be possible.  Sadly, he didn't give an example.  I think I need to start thinking of stories that I want to show up my game.  Terraforming Venus might be a good place to start.

