## The Login Prompt Again

Well, it's been 35 space days since I last made an entry in this blog.  I haven't worked on the project much since then.  I have to admit, I'm stuck on the login prompt issue.  

I don't know how it's supposed to work.  I want people to be able to start without logging in. Later, if they want, create an account.  That's the part that has got me stuck.  So, let me talk through it here.

It might be nice if there wasn't even a dialog box when the game loads the first time.  But, only the first time, if you're coming back to continue your save, then you'd rather login so your ship can be loaded.  So, I am making a dialog box that pops up right after the game has loaded.  It has options to "Login", "Create an Account", and "Continue as Guest".  That gives new players a really obvious way to jump right in and skip the nonsense and see what Safiina is all about.  It also gives returning players a way to get back to their previous ship.  It sort of takes the place of the title screen in tradisional games.  Maybe I should make sure the title appears when that script is displayed.  Those title screens usually have options like "Play", "Continue", "Load", "New Game", "About", and "Settings".  The home page will contain the "about" information, and there aren't any settings that can be changed yet. 

This means that there is two different ways they could be playing the game, either they're logged in or they aren't.  If they are logged in, I can save their progress periodically.  If they aren't logged in, then I need to give them the option to login at any time.  If they login to an existing account, then I will load the ship associated with their account.  I probably should warn them that their current, on-screen ship will be deleted if they login to an existing account.  If they create an account, then I will just save their current ship to the new account.

In a lot of ways, I am putting the cart before the horse.  It's kind of silly to worry about different corner cases of user behavior when I don't have any users at all.