## Flying The Shuttle

Items that are bought or sold will be delivered or dropped off by a shuttle.  I finally have a shuttle sprite and I have animated it a little.  It flies in and lands and takes off again.  It's pretty cute.

Here's how trading will work:

- The user will submit a trade from the Market Menu.
- The Market Module will decide if the trade is valid and discard it if it isn't (because of insufficient funds, for example).
- The Market Module will submit the trade to the server to be logged.
- The pending and in-progress deliveries will be visible in the Market Menu.
- The Market Module will find an available shuttle port for the shuttle to land on.
- A shuttle port must free of other scheduled deliveries and have an unobstructed view to open space in at least one direction.
- If no shuttle ports are available, the delivery will be left pending until a port opens up or is constructed.
- The module will schedule a delivery shuttle to visit the ship to complete the trade.
- If items are to be sold, the Market Module will create jobs to transport the items to the correct shuttle port.
- After a certain amount of time, the shuttle will spawn a suitable distance away from the ship and fly to the shuttle pad.
- The shuttle will stay until it is loaded with all items an take off when ready.
- If the shuttle was dropping off items, it will leave them on the shuttle port and take off immediately.
- Once the shuttle is far enough away, it will despawn and the shuttle port will be considered available again.

There's a lot to do still, but when shuttles work correctly, that will complete the Trade feature, which will be a big milestone.