## But What If The Space Ship Were a Submarine

I played *Objects in Space*, it's awesome.  It's a little clunky.  I turned off my attitude control without realizing it and it took me forever to figure out how to turn it back on.  It is really fun.

This one time, the communication console beeped, I click on it at see I'm being hailed, the sender's name appears, but I don't recognize it.  It's not a trading port.  I check the radar and I can't see them.  The long range radar has blind spots, so I spin my ship to try to do a sweep.  There's the ship whose name matches the hail coming towards me.  I accept the hail.  They start threatening me and demanding I drop my cargo or they'll shoot.

I'm carrying like 90 credits worth of hydrogen. It's worthless.  I'd gladly jettison it. Before I can figure out the controls for the cargo bay, the radar console beeps and there's a torpedo coming towards me.  I jump over to the navigation controls and spin around and fire up the main engine, but the torpedo and the pirate are gone from my radar. They're in my blind spot again.  I'm about to try a quick spin to check on them when the torpedo shows up in my short range radar. It's still gaining on me.  I perform a last minute 90 degree turn, and the torpedo flies right by me and disappears.  I was left to figure out how far off course I was and what to do about it.  It was so slow and tense, and it was a lot of fun.

I love the drama introduced by the limited access to information, and the reduced set of actions.  It made me want to buy some sort of anti-torpedo tech.  I don't know what's available in *Objects in Space*. Chaff? Flares? Point defense?  They've got to have something.


I also really liked the cyclops piloting in *Subnautica*.  Compared to ships in *Objects in Space*, the cyclops is a very simple machine.  You can move up, down, forward, and back.  You can turn side to side.  You can turn on and off your lights.  You can set the engine at different power levels, including off.  That's all the controls you have.  As for information, you have the front window with a very narrow field of view.  Well, it's almost 180 degrees, but it feels very narrow.  Also, there's a simple proximity warning thing styled like a sonar.  And there's a status graphic that shows you roughly where leaches are attached to the ship and where hull damage is.

I really enjoyed navigating the caves with the cyclops.  It's a very long vehicle, and it's hard to tell how long it is from the pilot's seat at the front.  You try to imagine where your tail is, and you watch the proximity detector.  If you need to, you can climb out and have a look around.  How close are you to to the cave wall?  Are you clear to descend at this point, or do you need to swing your tail around first?  If you make a mistake and hit something too hard, you have to get out of the pilot's seat and run around using your repair tool before you flood.

Then there are the sea monsters.  They're very territorial.  I remember needed to pass through a region where one of them was hanging out.  I floated at the entrance to the cavern for a while, watching their pattern, trying to plan my route.  I heard they were attracted to sound, so I turned the engine to its lowest setting.  I creeped toward center of the cavern and began my decent.  Almost immediately, the view from my window in restricted to just the wall in front of me.  The tunnel is small, but I think I've lined it up right, and I'm descending at a steady rate.  Suddenly, BANG!  The warning light flashes and the sub tilts to the side.  The proximity detector is going off on the tail.  The health bar has gone down a little.  I must be too close to the wall, but there's no time to repair. I've got to get out of the monster's realm first.  I begin turning a little, when there's a bigger crash!  I'm thrown across the room.  There are fires, and water rushing in, and I see huge, ghostly fins swimming by outside the window.  She found me!  I'll never know whether that first bang was the wall or the monster.  I rush back to the pilot's seat and turn the engine all the way up, the time for stealth has passed.  I descend as fast as I can.  There are a few more clangs, and the sub looses some more health.  Eventually, the attacks stop and I bring sub to a halt.  I grab the fire extinguisher off the wall and run around dealing with the flames.  Then the same with the repair tool.  Finally, as the water starts to drain from the interior of the sub, it's time to drop out into the water and see where I am now.

I'm being dramatic, but I'm trying to record the way these games made me feel.  How fun it is to control a huge ship from a little cockpit.  How it mixes the mundane and exciting.