## Engineering Console

I've been stuck for a while on this console idea.  It is turning out to be complicated.  I'm going to right down the major features of the Engineering Console and the Navigation Console as a design exercise.  This should help me see what are the common needs of all consoles.

 - Consoles in General
   - Put an overlay over the screen.
   - Disable movement in 3D world.
   - Give the mouse back when the console is active.
   - Quit, by pressing 'q', 'esc', and clicking the power button on the screen frame.
 - Engineering Console
   - Show the layout of the ship as a blueprint, one level at a time.
   - Give controls to pan, zoom, change levels, and jump to preset views
   - Show icons for furniture like stairs, consoles, and machinery.
   - Have overlays that can be turned on and off for infrastructure like power and plumbing.
   - Give controls to edit the structure of the ship, plan placement of walls, doors, and furniture.
     - A button to make new rooms.
       - Drag rectangles that creates floors, ceilings, and walls.
       - Only works in unused squares.
     - A button to delete everything in an area.
       - Drag rectangles than delete everything inside them.
       - Close neighboring rooms and compartments with walls.
       - Don't allow engineering console to be deleted while in use.
     - A button to draw new walls
     - A button to delete walls
     - A button to place doors
     - A button to delete doors
     - A button adding for furniture
       - Engineering Console
       - Navigation Console
       - Stairs 
         - Up or Down
         - Automatically adjusts floor and ceiling and walls when placed or removed
     - A button for deleting furniture
   - Show constructions that are planned, but not yet carried out.  Give controls to cancel them.
 - Navigation Console
   - Show location in system.
   - Allow planning maneuvers to go to different places in the system.
   - Show planned maneuvers and give controls to cancel them.

This didn't help.  There are too many pieces and I'm still feeling overwhelmed and I don't know where to start.  I need to get this organized and find a place to start.