## On-board Communication

I'm trying to figure out how to handle collisions with the walls of the ship.  Do I need a whole physics system?  Should I treat the ship as a 2D map?  I don't know.  In the mean time, I want to tell you about a weird (and probably bad) idea I had for managing jobs and modeling communication on the ship.

The idea is that when a crew member is working, they would use their personal electronic device to check the chore queue for the ship.  They would probably pick the highest priority chore that applies to them and mark that they're doing it so other crew members don't do it.  That's probably exactly how micromanagement sims like Rimworld, Oxygen Not Include, and Dwarf Fortress work.  It's the obvious way to do it.  What I'm considering adding is that if the ship-board network is underpowered, the crew wont be able connect to it.  They would wander around aimlessly, or maybe only do chores that are in the same room as them.

It would make sense for individual communication devices to still work even if the ship's network is down.  That means that the player could still issue orders directly to crew members, or that crew members could ask each other for help.  And asking each other for help is something I think crew should be able to do.  Obviously in the case of an emergency, but also as part of more routine tasks.  Maybe there are some jobs that are easier to do with multiple workers, like setting up a large machine.  A crew member who took on a job like that would ask for help.  One or more crew members might drop their own job to come help for a minute.  Assisting others would have to be a job category that the player would have the option of disabling or adjusting the priority of.  Just like any other job category, such as engineering or hauling.

It might be too confusing to actually work.  Or it might make the crew seem more alive and the ship more dynamic.  I'm a long way from needing to decide whether to put it in or being able to test it out, which is why I wanted to write it down.